Title: Board Report
Notice: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Apache BVal Report April 2012 ##

The Apache BVal project implements the Java EE Bean Validation 1.0 (JSR-303)
specification and related extensions, and became a top-level project of the
foundation on February 15, 2012.

### Releases ###
BVal version 0.3-incubating was released April 28, 2011.  The PMC is currently
voting to release BVal 0.4 RC1, which will be integrated into OpenEJB's imminent
TomEE release.

### Activity ###
Recent activity has focused on the 0.4 release, with an eye to the project's
long-term goals (e.g. minimizing dependencies).  Our next goals are to
continue improving the codebase so that we can make, as soon as possible,
a 1.0 release with the best possible interface with which to provide reliability
to our user base.  Discussions in this regard have already begun.

Traffic on the user mailing list remains low/nonexistent.  As always, we
consider that to be merely in the nature of providing an implementation of a
wider-known specification:  the reference implementation gets the user traffic.

We continue to follow the progress of the Bean Validation specification; its
1.1.0 version is being developed under Red Hat's (open) leadership as JSR-349.
Certain of the features of specification version 1.1.0 duplicate custom
functionality already implemented in BVal; these must of course be merged.
Apache BVal will implement Bean Validation v1.1.0 as soon as is practical.

### Community  ###
The composition of the team has not changed since graduation, at which time
all committers became members of the inaugural PMC.  The PMC is quite diverse
and we are satisfied that no entity has undue influence in our decision-making
process.

### Branding ###
The task of creating a new project logo remains open, though some positive
discussion has taken place and seems to be heading in the direction of
satisfying interested parties.

### Legal ###
No concerns at present.

### Infrastructure ###
We have some outstanding features we'd like to implement on our project
website (specifically a news or blog feed), and may seek advice and/or support
from infrastructure to accomplish this.