

 - The Apache BVal project implements the Java EE Bean Validation specification(s)
   and related extensions, and became a top-level project of the foundation on
   February 15, 2012.

## Issues:

 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity: 
 - None to speak of this quarter, which is normal for BVal: occasionally there is
   a frenzy of activity to effect a release, but these are punctuated by relative
   silence. As mentioned in previous reports, the specification process for Java
   Bean Validation 2.0 proceeds and seems to be nearing completion. There will be
   a resumption of activity in this project in response to that.

## Health report: 
 - The project staff remains busy elsewhere, for the most part. BVal is curated
   on a obligation basis more than anything else at this point. It is perhaps not
   the ideal scenario for project health, but it remains tenable.

## PMC changes: 

 - Currently 14 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months 
 - Last PMC addition was Romain Manni-Bucau on Mon Nov 18 2013 

## Committer base changes: 

 - Currently 14 committers. 
 - No new changes to the committer base since last report.
 - Last committer addition was Romain Manni-Bucau on Sun Jun 23 2013 

## Releases: 
   
 - Last release was 1.1.2 on Wed Nov 02 2016 
   
## Mailing list activity: 
   
 - The following statistics reflect the ebb in activity subsequent to the
   previous release.

 - dev@bval.apache.org:  
    - 44 subscribers (up 1 in the last 3 months): 
    - 7 emails sent to list (75 in previous quarter) 

 - user@bval.apache.org:  
    - 53 subscribers (up 2 in the last 3 months): 
    - 4 emails sent to list (3 in previous quarter) 

## JIRA activity: 

 - N/A
