Title: Board Report
Notice: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Apache BVal Report September 2018 ##

 - The Apache BVal project implements the Java EE Bean Validation
   specification(s) and related extensions, and became a top-level project of
   the foundation on February 15, 2012.

## Issues:

 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

 - Apache BVal community members working in Apache Commons have recently
   succeeded in pushing the 2.0 release of the Apache Commons Weaver component
   upon which we depend.
 - Our immediate plans are to push the release of the Apache licensed bean
   validation 2.0 specification artifact through the Apache Geronimo project and
   then to release Apache BVal 2.0.
 - The security issue mentioned last quarter is incurred at the specification
   level and has been deemed low priority by the bean validation community as a
   whole, any vulnerability requiring deliberate and naive custom code on the
   part of the application developer. The Apache BVal community continue to
   ponder what actions we might take to reduce the likelihood of such naive
   exposures.

## Health report:

 - We retain a small core of developers with the desire to keep this project
   afloat.

## PMC changes: 

 - Currently 13 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months 
 - Last PMC addition was Romain Manni-Bucau on Mon Nov 18 2013 

## Committer base changes: 

 - Currently 14 committers. 
 - No new changes to the committer base since last report. 

## Releases: 

 - Last release was 1.1.2 on Wed Nov 02 2016 

## JIRA activity: 

 - 1 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 0 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months
