Title: Board Report
Notice: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Apache BVal Report December 2018 ##

 - The Apache BVal project implements the Java EE Bean Validation
   specification(s) and related extensions, and became a top-level project of
   the foundation on February 15, 2012.

## Issues:

 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

 - During the past quarter we released Apache BVal 2.0.0 which delivers an
   implementation of the latest 2.0 Bean Validation JSR specification.
 - The recent release included code that, unless deliberately circumvented,
   would prevent the behavior at the core of the security vulnerability reported
   during Q2.
 - The Bean Validation EG leadership has reached out to encourage us to obtain
   official status as a conforming implementation. This is primarily a matter
   of configuration tooling which we hope to address in a forthcoming point
   release.
 - We have received a small number of post-release bug reports which we intend
   to address in the immediate future when the team's non-volunteer workload
   permits.

## Health report:

 - We retain a small core of developers with the desire to keep this project
   afloat.

## PMC changes: 

 - Currently 13 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months 
 - Last PMC addition was Romain Manni-Bucau on Mon Nov 18 2013 

## Committer base changes: 

 - Currently 14 committers. 
 - No new changes to the committer base since last report. 

## Releases: 

 - 2.0.0 was released on Sat Oct 27 2018 

## Mailing list activity: 

 - Activity this quarter reflects the release process of version 2.0.0 and an
   accompanying JIRA cleanup. Post-release saw some activity in response.

 - dev@bval.apache.org:  
    - 42 subscribers (down -4 in the last 3 months): 
    - 118 emails sent to list (26 in previous quarter) 

 - user@bval.apache.org:  
    - 54 subscribers (down -2 in the last 3 months): 
    - 5 emails sent to list (2 in previous quarter) 

## JIRA activity: 

 - 11 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 21 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months 
