Title: Board Report
Notice: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Apache BVal Report March 2018 ##

 - The Apache BVal project implements the Java EE Bean Validation
   specification(s) and related extensions, and became a top-level project of
   the foundation on February 15, 2012.

## Issues:

 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

 - The Apache BVal project has taken the task of implementing Java Bean
   Validation 2.0 as an opportunity for a major overhaul of the underlying
   structure of the codebase. This is more or less complete and the team is
   currently focused on meeting the requirements of the technology
   compatibility kit (TCK) for certification as a compliant implementation
   of the latest specification.

## Health report:

 - We retain a small core of developers with the desire to keep this project
   afloat.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 13 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Romain Manni-Bucau on Mon Nov 18 2013

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 14 committers.
 - No new changes to the committer base since last report.

## Releases:

 - Last release was 1.1.2 on Wed Nov 02 2016

## Mailing list activity:

 - dev@bval.apache.org:
    - 46 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 11 emails sent to list (19 in previous quarter)

 - user@bval.apache.org:
    - 54 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 2 emails sent to list (4 in previous quarter)
