Title: Board Report
Notice: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Apache BVal Report March 2019 ##

 - The Apache BVal project implements the Java EE Bean Validation
   specification(s) and related extensions, and became a top-level project of
   the foundation on February 15, 2012.

## Issues:

 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

 - We have lately been working to support our 2.0.0 release from last fall.
   Most notably this release, which rewrote a large portion of the codebase,
   is quite slow compared to the reference implementation of the Java Bean
   Validation (BV) specification so our near-term efforts will revolve around
   making improvements in that regard.
 - The 2.0.1 release described in last quarter's report as being in planning
   has not yet occurred. To remind the reader, one of the main purposes of
   the release would be to enable the proper tooling to certify Apache BVal
   as an implementation of the 2.0 BV specification.

## Health report:

 - We retain a small core of developers with the desire to keep this project
   afloat. It must be admitted that the available time for this project
   among this pool of resources is suboptimal; we continue to do what we can.

## PMC changes:

 - Currently 13 PMC members.
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months
 - Last PMC addition was Romain Manni-Bucau on Mon Nov 18 2013

## Committer base changes:

 - Currently 14 committers.
 - No new changes to the committer base since last report.

## Releases:

 - Last release was 2.0.0 on Sat Oct 27 2018

## Mailing list activity: 

 - dev@bval.apache.org:
    - 42 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 49 emails sent to list (118 in previous quarter)

 - user@bval.apache.org:
    - 54 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months):
    - 1 emails sent to list (5 in previous quarter)

## JIRA activity:

 - 2 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months
 - 2 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months
