

 - The Apache BVal project implements the Java EE Bean Validation
   specification(s) and related extensions, and became a top-level project of
   the foundation on February 15, 2012.

## Issues:

 - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity:

 - Over the past quarter the team has managed to put out a needed point
   release, despite a precipitous drop in the availability of the chair.

 - We have accumulated a new committer/PMC member.

 - Finally, we have seen recent community participation that during the next
   quarter will, in all likelihood, result in releases on both the 1.x and
   2.x development lineages.

 - It remains an open task to certify Apache BVal as an implementation of
   the 2.0 BV specification.

## Health report:

 - We retain a small core of developers with the desire to keep this project
   afloat. It is not clear how to attract additional hands other than to
   trust that the right people for this niche project will find their way.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 14 PMC members. 
 - Thomas Andraschko was added to the PMC on Wed May 15 2019 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 15 committers. 
 - Thomas Andraschko was added as a committer on Thu May 16 2019 
   
## Releases: 
   
 - 2.0.2 was released on Wed May 15 2019 
   
## Mailing list activity: 
   
 - These numbers reflect the recent flurry of activity:
   
 - dev@bval.apache.org:  
    - 42 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months): 
    - 85 emails sent to list (49 in previous quarter) 
   
 - user@bval.apache.org:  
    - 54 subscribers (up 0 in the last 3 months): 
    - 1 emails sent to list (1 in previous quarter) 
   
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 5 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 3 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months 
